The Allen School (UW CSE) has a multitude of student groups that are organized and managed by current students. Membership for all of these groups are open to all Allen School students, and each organization hosts several events each year to help foster a close community amongst the student population.

Allen School Student Groups
Click on a Student Group name or logo to find out more information!


Ability Group Logo	
Ability
Ability is an organization dedicated to spreading accessibility awareness and creating community for students with disabilities and their allies.


COM^2 Logo	
ACE (Association for Computing Education)
Association for Computing Education (ACE) focuses on building a community for students interested in the field of computing education. We provide resources and events to help students connect with TA opportunities, academia, and other computing education communities in the University of Washington.


COM^2 Logo	
COM2 (Computing Community)
Computing Community @ the University of Washington is a UW RSO dedicated to building community in the CSE department, and we are the largest student-led organization at the Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering. COM2 at the Allen School aims to bring the motivation and spirit of this organization to our school campus through career and academic support, mentorship, and community-building initiatives.


Gen 1 Logo	
GEN1
GEN1 aims to celebrate and support the Allen School’s vibrant and diverse first-generation community by providing resources and a community to ensure academic, professional, and personal success.


Minorities in Tech Logo	
Minorities in Tech (MiT)
Minorities in Tech supports underrepresented groups in the tech and industry and works to foster a more culturally inclusive CSE community. They are committed to creating an inclusive multicultural environment where differences are valued and respected.


Q plus plus Logo	
Q++
Q++ is a group at the University of Washington dedicated to providing support and community for LGBTQIA+ individuals within the Allen School community.


Student Advisory Council Logo	
Student Advisory Council (SAC)
The Student Advisory Council serves as a collective voice of students in the Allen School. The Council aims to address key issues in the Allen School including but not limited to: student wellness, diversity, curriculum development, and opportunities to engage in social good.


WiC @ UW Logo	
Women in Computing (WiC) @ UW
Women in Computing at the University of Washington is a group of students in the Paul G. Allen School (of all genders and orientations) dedicated to cultivating a strong supportive community of women within the Allen School, to helping members succeed academically, socially and professionally, and to demonstrate the importance and necessity of diversity in the computing world.


Student Groups Introduction Video
Watch our Student Groups video, updated with Fall 2022! Note: We have expanded to include ACE, founded Winter 2023!



Allen School Affiliate RSOs
The following list includes our Affiliate Registered Student Organizations at the University of Washington. Allen School students are closely involved in these organizations, and can be great communities to get involved with! RSOs that are hoping to apply as Affiliates can fill out the linked application at the bottom of this page.


DubHacks
DubHacks is a tech and entrepreneurship non-profit in Seattle run by students at the University of Washington. We bring together students of all backgrounds to tackle the issues they are most passionate about. Let's build tomorrow together.


Husky FOSS
We are an organization exploring the realm of free and open source software and encouraging their use in daily life. We love to use Linux (distributions), learn something new about it every time we meet, and foster a sense of community among all Linux and FOSS users. join us on discord: https://discord.gg/mhqvbqXwrZ


I2 (Interactive Intelligence)
I2 is an environment which aims to create a community of project-driven, outcome-oriented students at the University of Washington interested in the intersections of reinforcement learning, embodied artificial intelligence, and neuroscience. Our goal is to make machines learn like humans.


Project IF
Project Indoor Farm hopes to spread awareness to sustainable and modern alternatives to conventional agriculture. Our student-run hydroponics farm harvests over 20 pounds of lettuce every quarter. We hope to give students a way to do hands-on sustainability work while being able to progress their own career development through interdisciplinary projects, such as applying embedded systems to automate farm maintenance and using computer vision to monitor growth rates.


UW Blockchain
Dedicated to exploring the latest blockchain developments and novel cryptocurrency applications. Collaborate with your peers to learn about investing, trading, and mining cryptocurrencies. Join our discord for more info about meetings, events, etc. : https://discord.gg/NwZtaDAfRX


UWashington Formula Motorsports
Here at UWashington Formula Motorsports, we design, build, test and compete with an electric formula-style race car. Everything that our club produces is done entirely in-house. We produce our own designs, perform our own machining and manufacture our own carbon fiber parts. Every year, we bring our finished product to competition!


WOOF3D
WOOF3D gives students hands-on experience with manufacturing and digital fabrication technologies—such as CAD, 3D-printing, scanning, CNCing, injection molding—through our community outreach events and/or joining our year-long projects. We welcome both novices and experts! Some of our past projects include experimenting with printers that can print with metals, silicone, and chocolate; designing and building a printer with a 1 cubic meter build volume; and scanning and casting mammoth bones to complete a skeleton at the Burke Museum.


Starting a new Allen School Student Group
Our Officially Endorsed Student Groups are Registered Student Organizations (RSOs) that are geared towards developing community specifically for the Allen School. However, students are always welcome to develop their own RSOs through the Student Activities Office. If an Allen School student wants to develop a new Student Group, please complete the application below. We accept applications on a rolling basis, but will prioritize applications received by the end of Week 7 of the current academic quarter.

If you have questions please reach out to our Student Leadership Development Coordinator: EJ Pinera - epinera@cs.washington.edu


here is a video on allen school student groups: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_H1VY1BJsb4&t=2s