You may apply to the BS/MS program at different points in your undergraduate studies. Most students apply at the end of their junior years after completing all required 300-level CSE courses, or when they have roughly one year left in their undergraduate studies. A small number apply later, while finishing senior-level requirements. However, all students must begin graduate coursework within one year of receiving their bachelor's degrees. If you are unsure when to apply, please contact a CSE adviser.

Eligibility
The following are the minimum requirements for applying to the Allen School's Combined Bachelor's/Master's program:

You are a current Allen School CS or CE undergraduate major. Students who have already graduated are ineligible to apply.
You have junior standing or beyond (90 or more credits).
Your GPA is 3.0 or higher.
You have completed all required 300-level CSE courses (311, 312, 332, 351 are the most important. If you are missing a course you still may be eligible to apply and can contact BS/MS advising to understand your options.)
Competitive applicants will exceed these minimums, typically showing higher grades, CSE coursework beyond the minimum required, and strong written application materials.

Application Information
The 2023 BS/MS application will open May 9th and close June 9th.

A couple of notes about the application:

We will contact your faculty recommenders after the application closes. You should talk to them in advance, but do not need to coordinate the actual recommendation process.
You may not find a person you want to use as a reference in the drop down menu. If that is the case, let us know and we can solicit the recommendation from them directly.
2023 Application Timeline
May: Application opens May 9th
June: Application closes June 9th
Mid-late June through Mid July: Faculty recommenders submit feedback; BS/MS Admissions Committee reviews applications
Mid-late July: Decisions sent
Requirements
Your application requires the following components:

Statement of Purpose.  Recommended length: 750-1000 words.  Topics to address include: (1) Why are you interested in pursuing a combined BS/MS?  (2) What specific aspects of the program interest you, such as areas of study? (3) What makes you a good candidate for this program?
References.  List 2 CSE faculty members or affiliate faculty as references.  You must have 2 references who can speak to your classwork and/or research abilities. It is courteous to ask faculty members before listing them as references.
Transcripts:  Upload a copy of your UW unofficial transcript (use the "printer-friendly" version from MyUW).
Resume:  You have the option to upload a current resume.
MyCSE:  Confirm that your MyCSE profile is up-to-date, including scholarships, co-ops/internships, and research.
There is no fee for students completing the initial CSE BS/MS application. Students admitted to the BS/MS program must complete the UW Grad School application and pay an application fee as well as an enrollment fee once they become a graduate student (due before tuition).